# Design AlgoExpert
## Gathering System Requirements
We are building the AlgoExpert user flow. This includes:
- Users landing on the website
- Accessing questions
- Marking questions as complete
- Writing code
- Running code
- Having the user's code saved

The answer will not make focus on the payments or authentication. And it won't go too deep into the code-execution engine.

The platform is built for a global audience. But there is a heavy emphasis on US and India, as it is where most of the users are from.

The system availability doesn't need to be overly optimized, as it is a paid product, there isn't the need for more than 2 or 3 nines. This means that in a whole year, there is **1% to 0.1%** of downtime. Which results in **8 hours and 3 days** of downtime per year.

Latency and throughput is something that the system needs to prioritize, since users will expect a fast response when running the code. And they will have their code saved up on the servers. Apart from the code-execution engine, this is not difficult to implement.

## Coming Up With A Plan
AlgoExpert has a lot of static content. For example, the home page is static with lots of images. On the other hand, there is a lot of dynamic content. For example, the code that users themselves can write.

This means that a robust API backing the UI is a must have. And given that the content generated by users gets stored on the website, there is the need for a robust database backing the API as well.

The entire system can be divided into 3 core components:
- Static UI Content
- Accessing and interacting with questions (This means saving solutions, questions completion status, etc.)
- Ability to run code

The second bullet point will get divided further.

## Static UI Content
